ked; for the LORD sustained me. 3:6 I will not be afraid of ten thousands of people, that have set themselves against me round about. 3:7 Arise, O LORD; save me, O my God: for thou hast smitten all mine enemies upon the cheek bone; thou hast broken the teeth of the ungodly. 3:8 Salvation belongeth unto the LORD: thy blessing is upon thy people. Selah. 4:1 Hear me when I call, O God of my righteousness: thou hast enlarged me when I was in distress; have mercy upon me, and hear my prayer. 4:2 O ye sons of men, how long will ye turn my glory into shame? how long will ye love vanity, and seek after leasing? Selah. 4:3 But know that the LORD hath set apart him that is godly for himself: the LORD will hear when I call unto him. 4:4 Stand in awe, and sin not: commune with your own heart upon your bed, and be still. Selah. 4:5 Offer the sacrifices of righteousness, and put your trust in the LORD. 4:6 There be many that say, Who will shew us any good? LORD, lift thou up the light of thy countenance upon us. 4:7 Thou hast put gladness in my heart, more than in the time that their corn and their wine increased. 4:8 I will both lay me down in peace, and sleep: for thou, LORD, only makest me dwell in safety. 5:1 Give ear to my words, O LORD, consider my meditation. 5:2 Hearken unto the voice of my cry, my King, and my God: for unto thee will I pray. 5:3 My voice shalt thou hear in the morning, O LORD; in the morning will I direct my prayer unto thee, and will look up. 5:4 For thou art not a God that hath pleasure in wickedness: neither shall evil dwell with thee. 5:5 The foolish shall not stand in thy sight: thou hatest all workers of iniquity. 5:6 Thou shalt destroy them that speak leasing: the LORD will abhor the bloody and deceitful man. 5:7 But as for me, I will come into thy house in the multitude of thy mercy: and in thy fear will I worship toward thy holy temple. 5:8 Lead me, O LORD, in thy righteousness because of mine enemies; make thy way straight before my face. 5:9 For there is no faithfulness in their mouth; their inward part is very wickedness; their throat is an open sepulchre; they flatter with their tongue. 5:10 Destroy thou them, O God; let them fall by their own counsels; cast them out in the multitude of their transgressions; for they have rebelled against thee. 5:11 But let all those that put their trust in thee rejoice: let them ever shout for joy, because thou defendest them: let them also that love thy name be joyful in thee. 5:12 For thou, LORD, wilt bless the righteous; with favour wilt thou compass him as with a shield. 6:1 O LORD, rebuke me not in thine anger, neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure. 6:2 Have mercy upon me, O LORD; for I am weak: O LORD, heal me; for my bones are vexed. 6:3 My soul is also sore vexed: but thou, O LORD, how long? 6:4 Return, O LORD, deliver my soul: oh save me for thy mercies' sake. 6:5 For in death there is no remembrance of thee: in the grave who shall give thee thanks? 6:6 I am weary with my groaning; all the night make I my bed to swim; I water my couch with my tears. 6:7 Mine eye is consumed because of grief; it waxeth old because of all mine enemies. 6:8 Depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity; for the LORD hath heard the voice of my weeping. 6:9 The LORD hath heard my supplication; the LORD will receive my prayer. 6:10 Let all mine enemies be ashamed and sore vexed: let them return and be ashamed suddenly. 7:1 O LORD my God, in thee do I put my trust: save me from all them that persecute me, and deliver me: 7:2 Lest he tear my soul like a lion, rending it in pieces, while there is none to deliver. 7:3 O LORD my God, If I have done this; if there be iniquity in my hands; 7:4 If I have rewarded evil unto him that was at peace with me; (yea, I have delivered him that without cause is mine enemy:) 7:5 Let the enemy persecute my soul, and take it; yea, let him tread down my life upon the earth, and lay mine honour in the dust. Selah. 7:6 Arise, O LORD, in thine anger, lift up thyself because of the rage of mine enemies: and awake for me to the judgment that thou hast commanded. 7:7 So shall the congregation of the people compass thee about: for their sakes therefore return thou on high. 7:8 The LORD shall judge the people: judge me, O LORD, according to my righteousness, and according to mine integrity that is in me. 7:9 Oh let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end; but establish the just: for the righteous God trieth the hearts and reins. 7:10 My defence is of God, which saveth the upright in heart. 7:11 God judgeth the righteous, and God is angry with the wicked every day. 7:12 If he turn not, he will whet his sword; he hath bent his bow, and made it ready. 7:13 He hath also prepared for him the instruments of death; he ordaineth his arrows against the persecutors. 7:14 Behold, he travaileth with iniquity, and hath conceived mischief, and brought forth falsehood. 7:15 He made a pit, and digged it, and is fallen into the ditch which he made. 7:16 His mischief shall return upon his own head, and his violent dealing shall come down upon his own pate. 7:17 I will praise the LORD according to his righteousness: and will sing praise to the name of the LORD most high. 8:1 O LORD, our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth! who hast set thy glory above the heavens. 8:2 Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings hast thou ordained strength because of thine enemies, that thou mightest still the enemy and the avenger. 8:3 When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars, which thou hast ordained; 8:4 What is man, that thou art mindful of him? and the son of man, that thou visitest him? 8:5 For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honour. 8:6 Thou madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands; thou hast put all things under his feet: 8:7 All sheep and oxen, yea, and the beasts of the field; 8:8 The fowl of the air, and the fish of the sea, and whatsoever passeth through the paths of the seas. 8:9 O LORD our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth! 9:1 I will praise thee, O LORD, with my whole heart; I will shew forth all thy marvellous works. 9:2 I will be glad and rejoice in thee: I will sing praise to thy name, O thou most High. 9:3 When mine enemies are turned back, they shall fall and perish at thy presence. 9:4 For thou hast maintained my right and my cause; thou satest in the throne judging right. 9:5 Thou hast rebuked the heathen, thou hast destroyed the wicked, thou hast put out their name for ever and ever. 9:6 O thou enemy, destructions are come to a perpetual end: and thou hast destroyed cities; their memorial is perished with them. 9:7 But the LORD shall endure for ever: he hath prepared his throne for judgment. 9:8 And he shall judge the world in righteousness, he shall minister judgment to the people in uprightness. 9:9 The LORD also will be a refuge for the oppressed, a refuge in times of trouble. 9:10 And they that know thy name will put their trust in thee: for thou, LORD, hast not forsaken them that seek thee. 9:11 Sing praises to the LORD, which dwelleth in Zion: declare among the people his doings. 9:12 When he maketh inquisition for blood, he remembereth them: he forgetteth not the cry of the humble. 9:13 Have mercy upon me, O LORD; consider my trouble which I suffer of them that hate me, thou that liftest me up from the gates of death: 9:14 That I may shew forth all thy praise in the gates of the daughter of Zion: I will rejoice in thy salvation. 9:15 The heathen are sunk down in the pit that they made: in the net which they hid is their own foot taken. 9:16 The LORD is known by the judgment which he executeth: the wicked is snared in the work of his own hands. Higgaion. Selah. 9:17 The wicked shall be turned into hell, and all the nations that forget God. 9:18 For the needy shall not alway be forgotten: the expectation of the poor shall not perish for ever. 9:19 Arise, O LORD; let not man prevail: let the heathen be judged in thy sight. 9:20 Put them in fear, O LORD: that the nations may know themselves to be but men. Selah. 10:1 Why standest thou afar off, O LORD? why hidest thou thyself in times of trouble? 10:2 The wicked in his pride doth persecute the poor: let them be taken in the devices that they have imagined. 10:3 For the wicked boasteth of his heart's desire, and blesseth the covetous, whom the LORD abhorreth. 10:4 The wicked, through the pride of his countenance, will not seek after God: God is not in all his thoughts. 10:5 His ways are always grievous; thy judgments are far above out of his sight: as for all his enemies, he puffeth at them. 10:6 He hath said in his heart, I shall not be moved: for I shall never be in adversity. 10:7 His mouth is full of cursing and deceit and fraud: under his tongue is mischief and vanity. 10:8 He sitteth in the lurking places of the villages: in the secret places doth he murder the innocent: his eyes are privily set against the poor. 10:9 He lieth in wait secretly as a lion in his den: he lieth in wait to catch the poor: he doth catch the poor, when he draweth him into his net. 10:10 He croucheth, and humbleth himself, that the poor may fall by his strong ones. 10:11 He hath said in his heart, God hath forgotten: he hideth his face; he will never see it. 10:12 Arise, O LORD; O God, lift up thine hand: forget not the humble. 10:13 Wherefore doth the wicked contemn God? he hath said in his heart, Thou wilt not require it. 10:14 Thou hast seen it; for thou beholdest mischief and spite, to requite it with thy hand: the poor committeth himself unto thee; thou art the helper of the fatherless. 10:15 Break thou the arm of the wicked and the evil man: seek out his wickedness till thou find none. 10:16 The LORD is King for ever and ever: the heathen are perished out of his land. 10:17 LORD, thou hast heard the desire of the humble: thou wilt prepare their heart, thou wilt cause thine ear to hear: