 of the  beast; and his kingdom was full of darkness; and they gnawed their  tongues for pain, 16:11 And blasphemed the God of heaven because of  their pains and their sores, and repented not of their deeds.    16:12 And the sixth angel poured out his vial upon the great river  Euphrates; and the water thereof was dried up, that the way of the  kings of the east might be prepared.    16:13 And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs come out of the mouth  of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth  of the false prophet.    16:14 For they are the spirits of devils, working miracles, which go  forth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to gather  them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty.    16:15 Behold, I come as a thief. Blessed is he that watcheth, and  keepeth his garments, lest he walk naked, and they see his shame.    16:16 And he gathered them together into a place called in the Hebrew  tongue Armageddon.    16:17 And the seventh angel poured out his vial into the air; and  there came a great voice out of the temple of heaven, from the throne,  saying, It is done.    16:18 And there were voices, and thunders, and lightnings; and there  was a great earthquake, such as was not since men were upon the earth,  so mighty an earthquake, and so great.    16:19 And the great city was divided into three parts, and the cities  of the nations fell: and great Babylon came in remembrance before God,  to give unto her the cup of the wine of the fierceness of his wrath.    16:20 And every island fled away, and the mountains were not found.    16:21 And there fell upon men a great hail out of heaven, every stone  about the weight of a talent: and men blasphemed God because of the  plague of the hail; for the plague thereof was exceeding great.    17:1 And there came one of the seven angels which had the seven vials,  and talked with me, saying unto me, Come hither; I will shew unto thee  the judgment of the great whore that sitteth upon many waters: 17:2  With whom the kings of the earth have committed fornication, and the  inhabitants of the earth have been made drunk with the wine of her  fornication.    17:3 So he carried me away in the spirit into the wilderness: and I  saw a woman sit upon a scarlet coloured beast, full of names of  blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns.    17:4 And the woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet colour, and  decked with gold and precious stones and pearls, having a golden cup  in her hand full of abominations and filthiness of her fornication:  17:5 And upon her forehead was a name written, MYSTERY, BABYLON THE  GREAT, THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH.    17:6 And I saw the woman drunken with the blood of the saints, and  with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus: and when I saw her, I wondered  with great admiration.    17:7 And the angel said unto me, Wherefore didst thou marvel? I will  tell thee the mystery of the woman, and of the beast that carrieth  her, which hath the seven heads and ten horns.    17:8 The beast that thou sawest was, and is not; and shall ascend out  of the bottomless pit, and go into perdition: and they that dwell on  the earth shall wonder, whose names were not written in the book of  life from the foundation of the world, when they behold the beast that  was, and is not, and yet is.    17:9 And here is the mind which hath wisdom. The seven heads are seven  mountains, on which the woman sitteth.    17:10 And there are seven kings: five are fallen, and one is, and the  other is not yet come; and when he cometh, he must continue a short  space.    17:11 And the beast that was, and is not, even he is the eighth, and  is of the seven, and goeth into perdition.    17:12 And the ten horns which thou sawest are ten kings, which have  received no kingdom as yet; but receive power as kings one hour with  the beast.    17:13 These have one mind, and shall give their power and strength  unto the beast.    17:14 These shall make war with the Lamb, and the Lamb shall overcome  them: for he is Lord of lords, and King of kings: and they that are  with him are called, and chosen, and faithful.    17:15 And he saith unto me, The waters which thou sawest, where the  whore sitteth, are peoples, and multitudes, and nations, and tongues.    17:16 And the ten horns which thou sawest upon the beast, these shall  hate the whore, and shall make her desolate and naked, and shall eat  her flesh, and burn her with fire.    17:17 For God hath put in their hearts to fulfil his will, and to  agree, and give their kingdom unto the beast, until the words of God  shall be fulfilled.    17:18 And the woman which thou sawest is that great city, which  reigneth over the kings of the earth.    18:1 And after these things I saw another angel come down from heaven,  having great power; and the earth was lightened with his glory.    18:2 And he cried mightily with a strong voice, saying, Babylon the  great is fallen, is fallen, and is become the habitation of devils,  and the hold of every foul spirit, and a cage of every unclean and  hateful bird.    18:3 For all nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her  fornication, and the kings of the earth have committed fornication  with her, and the merchants of the earth are waxed rich through the  abundance of her delicacies.    18:4 And I heard another voice from heaven, saying, Come out of her,  my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive  not of her plagues.    18:5 For her sins have reached unto heaven, and God hath remembered  her iniquities.    18:6 Reward her even as she rewarded you, and double unto her double  according to her works: in the cup which she hath filled fill to her  double.    18:7 How much she hath glorified herself, and lived deliciously, so  much torment and sorrow give her: for she saith in her heart, I sit a  queen, and am no widow, and shall see no sorrow.    18:8 Therefore shall her plagues come in one day, death, and mourning,  and famine; and she shall be utterly burned with fire: for strong is  the Lord God who judgeth her.    18:9 And the kings of the earth, who have committed fornication and  lived deliciously with her, shall bewail her, and lament for her, when  they shall see the smoke of her burning, 18:10 Standing afar off for  the fear of her torment, saying, Alas, alas that great city Babylon,  that mighty city! for in one hour is thy judgment come.    18:11 And the merchants of the earth shall weep and mourn over her;  for no man buyeth their merchandise any more: 18:12 The merchandise of  gold, and silver, and precious stones, and of pearls, and fine linen,  and purple, and silk, and scarlet, and all thyine wood, and all manner  vessels of ivory, and all manner vessels of most precious wood, and of  brass, and iron, and marble, 18:13 And cinnamon, and odours, and  ointments, and frankincense, and wine, and oil, and fine flour, and  wheat, and beasts, and sheep, and horses, and chariots, and slaves,  and souls of men.    18:14 And the fruits that thy soul lusted after are departed from  thee, and all things which were dainty and goodly are departed from  thee, and thou shalt find them no more at all.    18:15 The merchants of these things, which were made rich by her,  shall stand afar off for the fear of her torment, weeping and wailing,  18:16 And saying, Alas, alas that great city, that was clothed in fine  linen, and purple, and scarlet, and decked with gold, and precious  stones, and pearls!  18:17 For in one hour so great riches is come to  nought. And every shipmaster, and all the company in ships, and  sailors, and as many as trade by sea, stood afar off, 18:18 And cried  when they saw the smoke of her burning, saying, What city is like unto  this great city!  18:19 And they cast dust on their heads, and cried,  weeping and wailing, saying, Alas, alas that great city, wherein were  made rich all that had ships in the sea by reason of her costliness!  for in one hour is she made desolate.    18:20 Rejoice over her, thou heaven, and ye holy apostles and  prophets; for God hath avenged you on her.    18:21 And a mighty angel took up a stone like a great millstone, and  cast it into the sea, saying, Thus with violence shall that great city  Babylon be thrown down, and shall be found no more at all.    18:22 And the voice of harpers, and musicians, and of pipers, and  trumpeters, shall be heard no more at all in thee; and no craftsman,  of whatsoever craft he be, shall be found any more in thee; and the  sound of a millstone shall be heard no more at all in thee; 18:23 And  the light of a candle shall shine no more at all in thee; and the  voice of the bridegroom and of the bride shall be heard no more at all  in thee: for thy merchants were the great men of the earth; for by thy  sorceries were all nations deceived.    18:24 And in her was found the blood of prophets, and of saints, and  of all that were slain upon the earth.    19:1 And after these things I heard a great voice of much people in  heaven, saying, Alleluia; Salvation, and glory, and honour, and power,  unto the Lord our God: 19:2 For true and righteous are his judgments:  for he hath judged the great whore, which did corrupt the earth with  her fornication, and hath avenged the blood of his servants at her  hand.    19:3 And again they said, Alleluia And her smoke rose up for ever and  ever.    19:4 And the four and twenty elders and the four beasts fell down and  worshipped God that sat on the throne, saying, Amen; Alleluia.    19:5 And a voice came out of the throne, saying, Praise our God, all  ye his servants, and ye that fear him, both small and great.    19:6 And I heard as it were the voice of a great multitude, and as the  voice of many waters, and as the voice of mighty thunderings, saying,  Alleluia: for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth.    19:7 Let us be glad and rejoice, and give honour to him: for the  marriage of the Lamb is