r vengeance and all their imaginations against me. 3:61 Thou hast heard their reproach, O LORD, and all their imaginations against me; 3:62 The lips of those that rose up against me, and their device against me all the day. 3:63 Behold their sitting down, and their rising up; I am their musick. 3:64 Render unto them a recompence, O LORD, according to the work of their hands. 3:65 Give them sorrow of heart, thy curse unto them. 3:66 Persecute and destroy them in anger from under the heavens of the LORD. 4:1 How is the gold become dim! how is the most fine gold changed! the stones of the sanctuary are poured out in the top of every street. 4:2 The precious sons of Zion, comparable to fine gold, how are they esteemed as earthen pitchers, the work of the hands of the potter! 4:3 Even the sea monsters draw out the breast, they give suck to their young ones: the daughter of my people is become cruel, like the ostriches in the wilderness. 4:4 The tongue of the sucking child cleaveth to the roof of his mouth for thirst: the young children ask bread, and no man breaketh it unto them. 4:5 They that did feed delicately are desolate in the streets: they that were brought up in scarlet embrace dunghills. 4:6 For the punishment of the iniquity of the daughter of my people is greater than the punishment of the sin of Sodom, that was overthrown as in a moment, and no hands stayed on her. 4:7 Her Nazarites were purer than snow, they were whiter than milk, they were more ruddy in body than rubies, their polishing was of sapphire: 4:8 Their visage is blacker than a coal; they are not known in the streets: their skin cleaveth to their bones; it is withered, it is become like a stick. 4:9 They that be slain with the sword are better than they that be slain with hunger: for these pine away, stricken through for want of the fruits of the field. 4:10 The hands of the pitiful women have sodden their own children: they were their meat in the destruction of the daughter of my people. 4:11 The LORD hath accomplished his fury; he hath poured out his fierce anger, and hath kindled a fire in Zion, and it hath devoured the foundations thereof. 4:12 The kings of the earth, and all the inhabitants of the world, would not have believed that the adversary and the enemy should have entered into the gates of Jerusalem. 4:13 For the sins of her prophets, and the iniquities of her priests, that have shed the blood of the just in the midst of her, 4:14 They have wandered as blind men in the streets, they have polluted themselves with blood, so that men could not touch their garments. 4:15 They cried unto them, Depart ye; it is unclean; depart, depart, touch not: when they fled away and wandered, they said among the heathen, They shall no more sojourn there. 4:16 The anger of the LORD hath divided them; he will no more regard them: they respected not the persons of the priests, they favoured not the elders. 4:17 As for us, our eyes as yet failed for our vain help: in our watching we have watched for a nation that could not save us. 4:18 They hunt our steps, that we cannot go in our streets: our end is near, our days are fulfilled; for our end is come. 4:19 Our persecutors are swifter than the eagles of the heaven: they pursued us upon the mountains, they laid wait for us in the wilderness. 4:20 The breath of our nostrils, the anointed of the LORD, was taken in their pits, of whom we said, Under his shadow we shall live among the heathen. 4:21 Rejoice and be glad, O daughter of Edom, that dwellest in the land of Uz; the cup also shall pass through unto thee: thou shalt be drunken, and shalt make thyself naked. 4:22 The punishment of thine iniquity is accomplished, O daughter of Zion; he will no more carry thee away into captivity: he will visit thine iniquity, O daughter of Edom; he will discover thy sins. 5:1 Remember, O LORD, what is come upon us: consider, and behold our reproach. 5:2 Our inheritance is turned to strangers, our houses to aliens. 5:3 We are orphans and fatherless, our mothers are as widows. 5:4 We have drunken our water for money; our wood is sold unto us. 5:5 Our necks are under persecution: we labour, and have no rest. 5:6 We have given the hand to the Egyptians, and to the Assyrians, to be satisfied with bread. 5:7 Our fathers have sinned, and are not; and we have borne their iniquities. 5:8 Servants have ruled over us: there is none that doth deliver us out of their hand. 5:9 We gat our bread with the peril of our lives because of the sword of the wilderness. 5:10 Our skin was black like an oven because of the terrible famine. 5:11 They ravished the women in Zion, and the maids in the cities of Judah. 5:12 Princes are hanged up by their hand: the faces of elders were not honoured. 5:13 They took the young men to grind, and the children fell under the wood. 5:14 The elders have ceased from the gate, the young men from their musick. 5:15 The joy of our heart is ceased; our dance is turned into mourning. 5:16 The crown is fallen from our head: woe unto us, that we have sinned! 5:17 For this our heart is faint; for these things our eyes are dim. 5:18 Because of the mountain of Zion, which is desolate, the foxes walk upon it. 5:19 Thou, O LORD, remainest for ever; thy throne from generation to generation. 5:20 Wherefore dost thou forget us for ever, and forsake us so long time? 5:21 Turn thou us unto thee, O LORD, and we shall be turned; renew our days as of old. 5:22 But thou hast utterly rejected us; thou art very wroth against us. The Book of the Prophet Ezekiel 1:1 Now it came to pass in the thirtieth year, in the fourth month, in the fifth day of the month, as I was among the captives by the river of Chebar, that the heavens were opened, and I saw visions of God. 1:2 In the fifth day of the month, which was the fifth year of king Jehoiachin's captivity, 1:3 The word of the LORD came expressly unto Ezekiel the priest, the son of Buzi, in the land of the Chaldeans by the river Chebar; and the hand of the LORD was there upon him. 1:4 And I looked, and, behold, a whirlwind came out of the north, a great cloud, and a fire infolding itself, and a brightness was about it, and out of the midst thereof as the colour of amber, out of the midst of the fire. 1:5 Also out of the midst thereof came the likeness of four living creatures. And this was their appearance; they had the likeness of a man. 1:6 And every one had four faces, and every one had four wings. 1:7 And their feet were straight feet; and the sole of their feet was like the sole of a calf's foot: and they sparkled like the colour of burnished brass. 1:8 And they had the hands of a man under their wings on their four sides; and they four had their faces and their wings. 1:9 Their wings were joined one to another; they turned not when they went; they went every one straight forward. 1:10 As for the likeness of their faces, they four had the face of a man, and the face of a lion, on the right side: and they four had the face of an ox on the left side; they four also had the face of an eagle. 1:11 Thus were their faces: and their wings were stretched upward; two wings of every one were joined one to another, and two covered their bodies. 1:12 And they went every one straight forward: whither the spirit was to go, they went; and they turned not when they went. 1:13 As for the likeness of the living creatures, their appearance was like burning coals of fire, and like the appearance of lamps: it went up and down among the living creatures; and the fire was bright, and out of the fire went forth lightning. 1:14 And the living creatures ran and returned as the appearance of a flash of lightning. 1:15 Now as I beheld the living creatures, behold one wheel upon the earth by the living creatures, with his four faces. 1:16 The appearance of the wheels and their work was like unto the colour of a beryl: and they four had one likeness: and their appearance and their work was as it were a wheel in the middle of a wheel. 1:17 When they went, they went upon their four sides: and they turned not when they went. 1:18 As for their rings, they were so high that they were dreadful; and their rings were full of eyes round about them four. 1:19 And when the living creatures went, the wheels went by them: and when the living creatures were lifted up from the earth, the wheels were lifted up. 1:20 Whithersoever the spirit was to go, they went, thither was their spirit to go; and the wheels were lifted up over against them: for the spirit of the living creature was in the wheels. 1:21 When those went, these went; and when those stood, these stood; and when those were lifted up from the earth, the wheels were lifted up over against them: for the spirit of the living creature was in the wheels. 1:22 And the likeness of the firmament upon the heads of the living creature was as the colour of the terrible crystal, stretched forth over their heads above. 1:23 And under the firmament were their wings straight, the one toward the other: every one had two, which covered on this side, and every one had two, which covered on that side, their bodies. 1:24 And when they went, I heard the noise of their wings, like the noise of great waters, as the voice of the Almighty, the voice of speech, as the noise of an host: when they stood, they let down their wings. 1:25 And there was a voice from the firmament that was over their heads, when they stood, and had let down their wings. 1:26 And above the firmament that was over their heads was the likeness of a throne, as the appearance of a sapphire stone: and upon the likeness of the throne was the likeness as the appearance of a man above upon it. 1:27 And I saw as the colour of amber, as the appearance of fire round about within it, from the appearance of his loins even upward, and from the appearance of his loins even downward, I saw as it were the appearance of fire, and it had brightness round about. 1:28 As the appearance of the bow that is in the cloud in the day of r