 come, and his wife hath made herself ready.    19:8 And to her was granted that she should be arrayed in fine linen,  clean and white: for the fine linen is the righteousness of saints.    19:9 And he saith unto me, Write, Blessed are they which are called  unto the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he saith unto me, These are  the true sayings of God.    19:10 And I fell at his feet to worship him. And he said unto me, See  thou do it not: I am thy fellowservant, and of thy brethren that have  the testimony of Jesus: worship God: for the testimony of Jesus is the  spirit of prophecy.    19:11 And I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse; and he that  sat upon him was called Faithful and True, and in righteousness he  doth judge and make war.    19:12 His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many  crowns; and he had a name written, that no man knew, but he himself.    19:13 And he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood: and his name  is called The Word of God.    19:14 And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white  horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean.    19:15 And out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with it he should  smite the nations: and he shall rule them with a rod of iron: and he  treadeth the winepress of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God.    19:16 And he hath on his vesture and on his thigh a name written, KING  OF KINGS, AND LORD OF LORDS.    19:17 And I saw an angel standing in the sun; and he cried with a loud  voice, saying to all the fowls that fly in the midst of heaven, Come  and gather yourselves together unto the supper of the great God; 19:18  That ye may eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of captains, and the  flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses, and of them that sit on  them, and the flesh of all men, both free and bond, both small and  great.    19:19 And I saw the beast, and the kings of the earth, and their  armies, gathered together to make war against him that sat on the  horse, and against his army.    19:20 And the beast was taken, and with him the false prophet that  wrought miracles before him, with which he deceived them that had  received the mark of the beast, and them that worshipped his image.  These both were cast alive into a lake of fire burning with brimstone.    19:21 And the remnant were slain with the sword of him that sat upon  the horse, which sword proceeded out of his mouth: and all the fowls  were filled with their flesh.    20:1 And I saw an angel come down from heaven, having the key of the  bottomless pit and a great chain in his hand.    20:2 And he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is the  Devil, and Satan, and bound him a thousand years, 20:3 And cast him  into the bottomless pit, and shut him up, and set a seal upon him,  that he should deceive the nations no more, till the thousand years  should be fulfilled: and after that he must be loosed a little season.    20:4 And I saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and judgment was given  unto them: and I saw the souls of them that were beheaded for the  witness of Jesus, and for the word of God, and which had not  worshipped the beast, neither his image, neither had received his mark  upon their foreheads, or in their hands; and they lived and reigned  with Christ a thousand years.    20:5 But the rest of the dead lived not again until the thousand years  were finished. This is the first resurrection.    20:6 Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection:  on such the second death hath no power, but they shall be priests of  God and of Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years.    20:7 And when the thousand years are expired, Satan shall be loosed  out of his prison, 20:8 And shall go out to deceive the nations which  are in the four quarters of the earth, Gog, and Magog, to gather them  together to battle: the number of whom is as the sand of the sea.    20:9 And they went up on the breadth of the earth, and compassed the  camp of the saints about, and the beloved city: and fire came down  from God out of heaven, and devoured them.    20:10 And the devil that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire  and brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet are, and shall be  tormented day and night for ever and ever.    20:11 And I saw a great white throne, and him that sat on it, from  whose face the earth and the heaven fled away; and there was found no  place for them.    20:12 And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the  books were opened: and another book was opened, which is the book of  life: and the dead were judged out of those things which were written  in the books, according to their works.    20:13 And the sea gave up the dead which were in it; and death and  hell delivered up the dead which were in them: and they were judged  every man according to their works.    20:14 And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the  second death.    20:15 And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast  into the lake of fire.    21:1 And I saw a new heaven and a new earth: for the first heaven and  the first earth were passed away; and there was no more sea.    21:2 And I John saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down from God  out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.    21:3 And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the  tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they  shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them, and be their  God.    21:4 And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and there  shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall  there be any more pain: for the former things are passed away.    21:5 And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things  new.    And he said unto me, Write: for these words are true and faithful.    21:6 And he said unto me, It is done. I am Alpha and Omega, the  beginning and the end. I will give unto him that is athirst of the  fountain of the water of life freely.    21:7 He that overcometh shall inherit all things; and I will be his  God, and he shall be my son.    21:8 But the fearful, and unbelieving, and the abominable, and  murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all  liars, shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and  brimstone: which is the second death.    21:9 And there came unto me one of the seven angels which had the  seven vials full of the seven last plagues, and talked with me,  saying, Come hither, I will shew thee the bride, the Lamb's wife.    21:10 And he carried me away in the spirit to a great and high  mountain, and shewed me that great city, the holy Jerusalem,  descending out of heaven from God, 21:11 Having the glory of God: and  her light was like unto a stone most precious, even like a jasper  stone, clear as crystal; 21:12 And had a wall great and high, and had  twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and names written  thereon, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the children of  Israel: 21:13 On the east three gates; on the north three gates; on  the south three gates; and on the west three gates.    21:14 And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and in them the  names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.    21:15 And he that talked with me had a golden reed to measure the  city, and the gates thereof, and the wall thereof.    21:16 And the city lieth foursquare, and the length is as large as the  breadth: and he measured the city with the reed, twelve thousand  furlongs.    The length and the breadth and the height of it are equal.    21:17 And he measured the wall thereof, an hundred and forty and four  cubits, according to the measure of a man, that is, of the angel.    21:18 And the building of the wall of it was of jasper: and the city  was pure gold, like unto clear glass.    21:19 And the foundations of the wall of the city were garnished with  all manner of precious stones. The first foundation was jasper; the  second, sapphire; the third, a chalcedony; the fourth, an emerald;  21:20 The fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, sardius; the seventh,  chrysolyte; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, a topaz; the tenth, a  chrysoprasus; the eleventh, a jacinth; the twelfth, an amethyst.    21:21 And the twelve gates were twelve pearls: every several gate was  of one pearl: and the street of the city was pure gold, as it were  transparent glass.    21:22 And I saw no temple therein: for the Lord God Almighty and the  Lamb are the temple of it.    21:23 And the city had no need of the sun, neither of the moon, to  shine in it: for the glory of God did lighten it, and the Lamb is the  light thereof.    21:24 And the nations of them which are saved shall walk in the light  of it: and the kings of the earth do bring their glory and honour into  it.    21:25 And the gates of it shall not be shut at all by day: for there  shall be no night there.    21:26 And they shall bring the glory and honour of the nations into  it.    21:27 And there shall in no wise enter into it any thing that  defileth, neither whatsoever worketh abomination, or maketh a lie: but  they which are written in the Lamb's book of life.    22:1 And he shewed me a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal,  proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb.    22:2 In the midst of the street of it, and on either side of the  river, was there the tree of life, which bare twelve manner of fruits,  and yielded her fruit every month: and the leaves of the tree were for  the healing of the nations.    22:3 And there shall be no more curse: but the throne of God and of  the Lamb shall be in it; and his servants shall serve him: 22:4 And  they shall see his face; and his name shall be in their foreheads.    22:5 And there shall be no night there; and they need no candle,  neither light of the sun; for the Lord God giveth them light: and they  shall reign for eve