 and the chief of the fathers of the priests and Levites, even the principal fathers over against their younger brethren. 25:1 Moreover David and the captains of the host separated to the service of the sons of Asaph, and of Heman, and of Jeduthun, who should prophesy with harps, with psalteries, and with cymbals: and the number of the workmen according to their service was: 25:2 Of the sons of Asaph; Zaccur, and Joseph, and Nethaniah, and Asarelah, the sons of Asaph under the hands of Asaph, which prophesied according to the order of the king. 25:3 Of Jeduthun: the sons of Jeduthun; Gedaliah, and Zeri, and Jeshaiah, Hashabiah, and Mattithiah, six, under the hands of their father Jeduthun, who prophesied with a harp, to give thanks and to praise the LORD. 25:4 Of Heman: the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel, and Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, and Romamtiezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, and Mahazioth: 25:5 All these were the sons of Heman the king's seer in the words of God, to lift up the horn. And God gave to Heman fourteen sons and three daughters. 25:6 All these were under the hands of their father for song in the house of the LORD, with cymbals, psalteries, and harps, for the service of the house of God, according to the king's order to Asaph, Jeduthun, and Heman. 25:7 So the number of them, with their brethren that were instructed in the songs of the LORD, even all that were cunning, was two hundred fourscore and eight. 25:8 And they cast lots, ward against ward, as well the small as the great, the teacher as the scholar. 25:9 Now the first lot came forth for Asaph to Joseph: the second to Gedaliah, who with his brethren and sons were twelve: 25:10 The third to Zaccur, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:11 The fourth to Izri, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:12 The fifth to Nethaniah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:13 The sixth to Bukkiah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:14 The seventh to Jesharelah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:15 The eighth to Jeshaiah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:16 The ninth to Mattaniah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:17 The tenth to Shimei, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:18 The eleventh to Azareel, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:19 The twelfth to Hashabiah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:20 The thirteenth to Shubael, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:21 The fourteenth to Mattithiah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:22 The fifteenth to Jeremoth, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:23 The sixteenth to Hananiah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:24 The seventeenth to Joshbekashah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:25 The eighteenth to Hanani, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:26 The nineteenth to Mallothi, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:27 The twentieth to Eliathah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:28 The one and twentieth to Hothir, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:29 The two and twentieth to Giddalti, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:30 The three and twentieth to Mahazioth, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:31 The four and twentieth to Romamtiezer, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve. 26:1 Concerning the divisions of the porters: Of the Korhites was Meshelemiah the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph. 26:2 And the sons of Meshelemiah were, Zechariah the firstborn, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth, 26:3 Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Elioenai the seventh. 26:4 Moreover the sons of Obededom were, Shemaiah the firstborn, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, and Sacar the fourth, and Nethaneel the fifth. 26:5 Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peulthai the eighth: for God blessed him. 26:6 Also unto Shemaiah his son were sons born, that ruled throughout the house of their father: for they were mighty men of valour. 26:7 The sons of Shemaiah; Othni, and Rephael, and Obed, Elzabad, whose brethren were strong men, Elihu, and Semachiah. 26:8 All these of the sons of Obededom: they and their sons and their brethren, able men for strength for the service, were threescore and two of Obededom. 26:9 And Meshelemiah had sons and brethren, strong men, eighteen. 26:10 Also Hosah, of the children of Merari, had sons; Simri the chief, (for though he was not the firstborn, yet his father made him the chief;) 26:11 Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth: all the sons and brethren of Hosah were thirteen. 26:12 Among these were the divisions of the porters, even among the chief men, having wards one against another, to minister in the house of the LORD. 26:13 And they cast lots, as well the small as the great, according to the house of their fathers, for every gate. 26:14 And the lot eastward fell to Shelemiah. Then for Zechariah his son, a wise counsellor, they cast lots; and his lot came out northward. 26:15 To Obededom southward; and to his sons the house of Asuppim. 26:16 To Shuppim and Hosah the lot came forth westward, with the gate Shallecheth, by the causeway of the going up, ward against ward. 26:17 Eastward were six Levites, northward four a day, southward four a day, and toward Asuppim two and two. 26:18 At Parbar westward, four at the causeway, and two at Parbar. 26:19 These are the divisions of the porters among the sons of Kore, and among the sons of Merari. 26:20 And of the Levites, Ahijah was over the treasures of the house of God, and over the treasures of the dedicated things. 26:21 As concerning the sons of Laadan; the sons of the Gershonite Laadan, chief fathers, even of Laadan the Gershonite, were Jehieli. 26:22 The sons of Jehieli; Zetham, and Joel his brother, which were over the treasures of the house of the LORD. 26:23 Of the Amramites, and the Izharites, the Hebronites, and the Uzzielites: 26:24 And Shebuel the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, was ruler of the treasures. 26:25 And his brethren by Eliezer; Rehabiah his son, and Jeshaiah his son, and Joram his son, and Zichri his son, and Shelomith his son. 26:26 Which Shelomith and his brethren were over all the treasures of the dedicated things, which David the king, and the chief fathers, the captains over thousands and hundreds, and the captains of the host, had dedicated. 26:27 Out of the spoils won in battles did they dedicate to maintain the house of the LORD. 26:28 And all that Samuel the seer, and Saul the son of Kish, and Abner the son of Ner, and Joab the son of Zeruiah, had dedicated; and whosoever had dedicated any thing, it was under the hand of Shelomith, and of his brethren. 26:29 Of the Izharites, Chenaniah and his sons were for the outward business over Israel, for officers and judges. 26:30 And of the Hebronites, Hashabiah and his brethren, men of valour, a thousand and seven hundred, were officers among them of Israel on this side Jordan westward in all the business of the LORD, and in the service of the king. 26:31 Among the Hebronites was Jerijah the chief, even among the Hebronites, according to the generations of his fathers. In the fortieth year of the reign of David they were sought for, and there were found among them mighty men of valour at Jazer of Gilead. 26:32 And his brethren, men of valour, were two thousand and seven hundred chief fathers, whom king David made rulers over the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half tribe of Manasseh, for every matter pertaining to God, and affairs of the king. 27:1 Now the children of Israel after their number, to wit, the chief fathers and captains of thousands and hundreds, and their officers that served the king in any matter of the courses, which came in and went out month by month throughout all the months of the year, of every course were twenty and four thousand. 27:2 Over the first course for the first month was Jashobeam the son of Zabdiel: and in his course were twenty and four thousand. 27:3 Of the children of Perez was the chief of all the captains of the host for the first month. 27:4 And over the course of the second month was Dodai an Ahohite, and of his course was Mikloth also the ruler: in his course likewise were twenty and four thousand. 27:5 The third captain of the host for the third month was Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, a chief priest: and in his course were twenty and four thousand. 27:6 This is that Benaiah, who was mighty among the thirty, and above the thirty: and in his course was Ammizabad his son. 27:7 The fourth captain for the fourth month was Asahel the brother of Joab, and Zebadiah his son after him: and in his course were twenty and four thousand. 27:8 The fifth captain for the fifth month was Shamhuth the Izrahite: and in his course were twenty and four thousand. 27:9 The sixth captain for the sixth month was Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite: and in his course were twenty and four thousand. 27:10 The seventh captain for the seventh month was Helez the Pelonite, of the children of Ephraim: and in his course were twenty and four thousand. 27:11 The eighth captain for the eighth month was Sibbecai the Hushathite, of the Zarhites: and in his course were twenty and four thousand. 27:12 The ninth captain for the ninth month was Abiezer the Anetothite, of the Benjamites: and in his course were twenty and four thousand. 27:13 The tenth captain for the tenth month was Maharai the Netophathite, of the Zarhites: and in his course were twenty and four thousand. 27:14 The eleventh captain for the eleventh month was Benaiah the Pirathonite, of the children of Ephraim: and in his course were twenty and four thousand. 27:15 The twelfth captain for the twelfth month was Heldai the Netophathite, of Othniel: and in his course were twenty and four thousand. 27:16 Furthermore over the tribes of Israel: the ruler of the Reube