time.    12:13 And when the dragon saw that he was cast unto the earth, he  persecuted the woman which brought forth the man child.    12:14 And to the woman were given two wings of a great eagle, that she  might fly into the wilderness, into her place, where she is nourished  for a time, and times, and half a time, from the face of the serpent.    12:15 And the serpent cast out of his mouth water as a flood after the  woman, that he might cause her to be carried away of the flood.    12:16 And the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened her mouth,  and swallowed up the flood which the dragon cast out of his mouth.    12:17 And the dragon was wroth with the woman, and went to make war  with the remnant of her seed, which keep the commandments of God, and  have the testimony of Jesus Christ.    13:1 And I stood upon the sand of the sea, and saw a beast rise up out  of the sea, having seven heads and ten horns, and upon his horns ten  crowns, and upon his heads the name of blasphemy.    13:2 And the beast which I saw was like unto a leopard, and his feet  were as the feet of a bear, and his mouth as the mouth of a lion: and  the dragon gave him his power, and his seat, and great authority.    13:3 And I saw one of his heads as it were wounded to death; and his  deadly wound was healed: and all the world wondered after the beast.    13:4 And they worshipped the dragon which gave power unto the beast:  and they worshipped the beast, saying, Who is like unto the beast? who  is able to make war with him?  13:5 And there was given unto him a  mouth speaking great things and blasphemies; and power was given unto  him to continue forty and two months.    13:6 And he opened his mouth in blasphemy against God, to blaspheme  his name, and his tabernacle, and them that dwell in heaven.    13:7 And it was given unto him to make war with the saints, and to  overcome them: and power was given him over all kindreds, and tongues,  and nations.    13:8 And all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him, whose names  are not written in the book of life of the Lamb slain from the  foundation of the world.    13:9 If any man have an ear, let him hear.    13:10 He that leadeth into captivity shall go into captivity: he that  killeth with the sword must be killed with the sword. Here is the  patience and the faith of the saints.    13:11 And I beheld another beast coming up out of the earth; and he  had two horns like a lamb, and he spake as a dragon.    13:12 And he exerciseth all the power of the first beast before him,  and causeth the earth and them which dwell therein to worship the  first beast, whose deadly wound was healed.    13:13 And he doeth great wonders, so that he maketh fire come down  from heaven on the earth in the sight of men, 13:14 And deceiveth them  that dwell on the earth by the means of those miracles which he had  power to do in the sight of the beast; saying to them that dwell on  the earth, that they should make an image to the beast, which had the  wound by a sword, and did live.    13:15 And he had power to give life unto the image of the beast, that  the image of the beast should both speak, and cause that as many as  would not worship the image of the beast should be killed.    13:16 And he causeth all, both small and great, rich and poor, free  and bond, to receive a mark in their right hand, or in their  foreheads: 13:17 And that no man might buy or sell, save he that had  the mark, or the name of the beast, or the number of his name.    13:18 Here is wisdom. Let him that hath understanding count the number  of the beast: for it is the number of a man; and his number is Six  hundred threescore and six.    14:1 And I looked, and, lo, a Lamb stood on the mount Sion, and with  him an hundred forty and four thousand, having his Father's name  written in their foreheads.    14:2 And I heard a voice from heaven, as the voice of many waters, and  as the voice of a great thunder: and I heard the voice of harpers  harping with their harps: 14:3 And they sung as it were a new song  before the throne, and before the four beasts, and the elders: and no  man could learn that song but the hundred and forty and four thousand,  which were redeemed from the earth.    14:4 These are they which were not defiled with women; for they are  virgins. These are they which follow the Lamb whithersoever he goeth.  These were redeemed from among men, being the firstfruits unto God and  to the Lamb.    14:5 And in their mouth was found no guile: for they are without fault  before the throne of God.    14:6 And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the  everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to  every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people, 14:7 Saying with a  loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his  judgment is come: and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the  sea, and the fountains of waters.    14:8 And there followed another angel, saying, Babylon is fallen, is  fallen, that great city, because she made all nations drink of the  wine of the wrath of her fornication.    14:9 And the third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, If  any man worship the beast and his image, and receive his mark in his  forehead, or in his hand, 14:10 The same shall drink of the wine of  the wrath of God, which is poured out without mixture into the cup of  his indignation; and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in  the presence of the holy angels, and in the presence of the Lamb:  14:11 And the smoke of their torment ascendeth up for ever and ever:  and they have no rest day nor night, who worship the beast and his  image, and whosoever receiveth the mark of his name.    14:12 Here is the patience of the saints: here are they that keep the  commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus.    14:13 And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Write, Blessed  are the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth: Yea, saith the  Spirit, that they may rest from their labours; and their works do  follow them.    14:14 And I looked, and behold a white cloud, and upon the cloud one  sat like unto the Son of man, having on his head a golden crown, and  in his hand a sharp sickle.    14:15 And another angel came out of the temple, crying with a loud  voice to him that sat on the cloud, Thrust in thy sickle, and reap:  for the time is come for thee to reap; for the harvest of the earth is  ripe.    14:16 And he that sat on the cloud thrust in his sickle on the earth;  and the earth was reaped.    14:17 And another angel came out of the temple which is in heaven, he  also having a sharp sickle.    14:18 And another angel came out from the altar, which had power over  fire; and cried with a loud cry to him that had the sharp sickle,  saying, Thrust in thy sharp sickle, and gather the clusters of the  vine of the earth; for her grapes are fully ripe.    14:19 And the angel thrust in his sickle into the earth, and gathered  the vine of the earth, and cast it into the great winepress of the  wrath of God.    14:20 And the winepress was trodden without the city, and blood came  out of the winepress, even unto the horse bridles, by the space of a  thousand and six hundred furlongs.    15:1 And I saw another sign in heaven, great and marvellous, seven  angels having the seven last plagues; for in them is filled up the  wrath of God.    15:2 And I saw as it were a sea of glass mingled with fire: and them  that had gotten the victory over the beast, and over his image, and  over his mark, and over the number of his name, stand on the sea of  glass, having the harps of God.    15:3 And they sing the song of Moses the servant of God, and the song  of the Lamb, saying, Great and marvellous are thy works, Lord God  Almighty; just and true are thy ways, thou King of saints.    15:4 Who shall not fear thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name? for thou  only art holy: for all nations shall come and worship before thee; for  thy judgments are made manifest.    15:5 And after that I looked, and, behold, the temple of the  tabernacle of the testimony in heaven was opened: 15:6 And the seven  angels came out of the temple, having the seven plagues, clothed in  pure and white linen, and having their breasts girded with golden  girdles.    15:7 And one of the four beasts gave unto the seven angels seven  golden vials full of the wrath of God, who liveth for ever and ever.    15:8 And the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God, and  from his power; and no man was able to enter into the temple, till the  seven plagues of the seven angels were fulfilled.    16:1 And I heard a great voice out of the temple saying to the seven  angels, Go your ways, and pour out the vials of the wrath of God upon  the earth.    16:2 And the first went, and poured out his vial upon the earth; and  there fell a noisome and grievous sore upon the men which had the mark  of the beast, and upon them which worshipped his image.    16:3 And the second angel poured out his vial upon the sea; and it  became as the blood of a dead man: and every living soul died in the  sea.    16:4 And the third angel poured out his vial upon the rivers and  fountains of waters; and they became blood.    16:5 And I heard the angel of the waters say, Thou art righteous, O  Lord, which art, and wast, and shalt be, because thou hast judged  thus.    16:6 For they have shed the blood of saints and prophets, and thou  hast given them blood to drink; for they are worthy.    16:7 And I heard another out of the altar say, Even so, Lord God  Almighty, true and righteous are thy judgments.    16:8 And the fourth angel poured out his vial upon the sun; and power  was given unto him to scorch men with fire.    16:9 And men were scorched with great heat, and blasphemed the name of  God, which hath power over these plagues: and they repented not to  give him glory.    16:10 And the fifth angel poured out his vial upon the seat