alem is as a menstruous woman among them. 1:18 The LORD is righteous; for I have rebelled against his commandment: hear, I pray you, all people, and behold my sorrow: my virgins and my young men are gone into captivity. 1:19 I called for my lovers, but they deceived me: my priests and mine elders gave up the ghost in the city, while they sought their meat to relieve their souls. 1:20 Behold, O LORD; for I am in distress: my bowels are troubled; mine heart is turned within me; for I have grievously rebelled: abroad the sword bereaveth, at home there is as death. 1:21 They have heard that I sigh: there is none to comfort me: all mine enemies have heard of my trouble; they are glad that thou hast done it: thou wilt bring the day that thou hast called, and they shall be like unto me. 1:22 Let all their wickedness come before thee; and do unto them, as thou hast done unto me for all my transgressions: for my sighs are many, and my heart is faint. 2:1 How hath the LORD covered the daughter of Zion with a cloud in his anger, and cast down from heaven unto the earth the beauty of Israel, and remembered not his footstool in the day of his anger! 2:2 The LORD hath swallowed up all the habitations of Jacob, and hath not pitied: he hath thrown down in his wrath the strong holds of the daughter of Judah; he hath brought them down to the ground: he hath polluted the kingdom and the princes thereof. 2:3 He hath cut off in his fierce anger all the horn of Israel: he hath drawn back his right hand from before the enemy, and he burned against Jacob like a flaming fire, which devoureth round about. 2:4 He hath bent his bow like an enemy: he stood with his right hand as an adversary, and slew all that were pleasant to the eye in the tabernacle of the daughter of Zion: he poured out his fury like fire. 2:5 The LORD was as an enemy: he hath swallowed up Israel, he hath swallowed up all her palaces: he hath destroyed his strong holds, and hath increased in the daughter of Judah mourning and lamentation. 2:6 And he hath violently taken away his tabernacle, as if it were of a garden: he hath destroyed his places of the assembly: the LORD hath caused the solemn feasts and sabbaths to be forgotten in Zion, and hath despised in the indignation of his anger the king and the priest. 2:7 The LORD hath cast off his altar, he hath abhorred his sanctuary, he hath given up into the hand of the enemy the walls of her palaces; they have made a noise in the house of the LORD, as in the day of a solemn feast. 2:8 The LORD hath purposed to destroy the wall of the daughter of Zion: he hath stretched out a line, he hath not withdrawn his hand from destroying: therefore he made the rampart and the wall to lament; they languished together. 2:9 Her gates are sunk into the ground; he hath destroyed and broken her bars: her king and her princes are among the Gentiles: the law is no more; her prophets also find no vision from the LORD. 2:10 The elders of the daughter of Zion sit upon the ground, and keep silence: they have cast up dust upon their heads; they have girded themselves with sackcloth: the virgins of Jerusalem hang down their heads to the ground. 2:11 Mine eyes do fail with tears, my bowels are troubled, my liver is poured upon the earth, for the destruction of the daughter of my people; because the children and the sucklings swoon in the streets of the city. 2:12 They say to their mothers, Where is corn and wine? when they swooned as the wounded in the streets of the city, when their soul was poured out into their mothers' bosom. 2:13 What thing shall I take to witness for thee? what thing shall I liken to thee, O daughter of Jerusalem? what shall I equal to thee, that I may comfort thee, O virgin daughter of Zion? for thy breach is great like the sea: who can heal thee? 2:14 Thy prophets have seen vain and foolish things for thee: and they have not discovered thine iniquity, to turn away thy captivity; but have seen for thee false burdens and causes of banishment. 2:15 All that pass by clap their hands at thee; they hiss and wag their head at the daughter of Jerusalem, saying, Is this the city that men call The perfection of beauty, The joy of the whole earth? 2:16 All thine enemies have opened their mouth against thee: they hiss and gnash the teeth: they say, We have swallowed her up: certainly this is the day that we looked for; we have found, we have seen it. 2:17 The LORD hath done that which he had devised; he hath fulfilled his word that he had commanded in the days of old: he hath thrown down, and hath not pitied: and he hath caused thine enemy to rejoice over thee, he hath set up the horn of thine adversaries. 2:18 Their heart cried unto the LORD, O wall of the daughter of Zion, let tears run down like a river day and night: give thyself no rest; let not the apple of thine eye cease. 2:19 Arise, cry out in the night: in the beginning of the watches pour out thine heart like water before the face of the LORD: lift up thy hands toward him for the life of thy young children, that faint for hunger in the top of every street. 2:20 Behold, O LORD, and consider to whom thou hast done this. Shall the women eat their fruit, and children of a span long? shall the priest and the prophet be slain in the sanctuary of the Lord? 2:21 The young and the old lie on the ground in the streets: my virgins and my young men are fallen by the sword; thou hast slain them in the day of thine anger; thou hast killed, and not pitied. 2:22 Thou hast called as in a solemn day my terrors round about, so that in the day of the LORD's anger none escaped nor remained: those that I have swaddled and brought up hath mine enemy consumed. 3:1 I AM the man that hath seen affliction by the rod of his wrath. 3:2 He hath led me, and brought me into darkness, but not into light. 3:3 Surely against me is he turned; he turneth his hand against me all the day. 3:4 My flesh and my skin hath he made old; he hath broken my bones. 3:5 He hath builded against me, and compassed me with gall and travail. 3:6 He hath set me in dark places, as they that be dead of old. 3:7 He hath hedged me about, that I cannot get out: he hath made my chain heavy. 3:8 Also when I cry and shout, he shutteth out my prayer. 3:9 He hath inclosed my ways with hewn stone, he hath made my paths crooked. 3:10 He was unto me as a bear lying in wait, and as a lion in secret places. 3:11 He hath turned aside my ways, and pulled me in pieces: he hath made me desolate. 3:12 He hath bent his bow, and set me as a mark for the arrow. 3:13 He hath caused the arrows of his quiver to enter into my reins. 3:14 I was a derision to all my people; and their song all the day. 3:15 He hath filled me with bitterness, he hath made me drunken with wormwood. 3:16 He hath also broken my teeth with gravel stones, he hath covered me with ashes. 3:17 And thou hast removed my soul far off from peace: I forgat prosperity. 3:18 And I said, My strength and my hope is perished from the LORD: 3:19 Remembering mine affliction and my misery, the wormwood and the gall. 3:20 My soul hath them still in remembrance, and is humbled in me. 3:21 This I recall to my mind, therefore have I hope. 3:22 It is of the LORD's mercies that we are not consumed, because his compassions fail not. 3:23 They are new every morning: great is thy faithfulness. 3:24 The LORD is my portion, saith my soul; therefore will I hope in him. 3:25 The LORD is good unto them that wait for him, to the soul that seeketh him. 3:26 It is good that a man should both hope and quietly wait for the salvation of the LORD. 3:27 It is good for a man that he bear the yoke of his youth. 3:28 He sitteth alone and keepeth silence, because he hath borne it upon him. 3:29 He putteth his mouth in the dust; if so be there may be hope. 3:30 He giveth his cheek to him that smiteth him: he is filled full with reproach. 3:31 For the LORD will not cast off for ever: 3:32 But though he cause grief, yet will he have compassion according to the multitude of his mercies. 3:33 For he doth not afflict willingly nor grieve the children of men. 3:34 To crush under his feet all the prisoners of the earth. 3:35 To turn aside the right of a man before the face of the most High, 3:36 To subvert a man in his cause, the LORD approveth not. 3:37 Who is he that saith, and it cometh to pass, when the Lord commandeth it not? 3:38 Out of the mouth of the most High proceedeth not evil and good? 3:39 Wherefore doth a living man complain, a man for the punishment of his sins? 3:40 Let us search and try our ways, and turn again to the LORD. 3:41 Let us lift up our heart with our hands unto God in the heavens. 3:42 We have transgressed and have rebelled: thou hast not pardoned. 3:43 Thou hast covered with anger, and persecuted us: thou hast slain, thou hast not pitied. 3:44 Thou hast covered thyself with a cloud, that our prayer should not pass through. 3:45 Thou hast made us as the offscouring and refuse in the midst of the people. 3:46 All our enemies have opened their mouths against us. 3:47 Fear and a snare is come upon us, desolation and destruction. 3:48 Mine eye runneth down with rivers of water for the destruction of the daughter of my people. 3:49 Mine eye trickleth down, and ceaseth not, without any intermission. 3:50 Till the LORD look down, and behold from heaven. 3:51 Mine eye affecteth mine heart because of all the daughters of my city. 3:52 Mine enemies chased me sore, like a bird, without cause. 3:53 They have cut off my life in the dungeon, and cast a stone upon me. 3:54 Waters flowed over mine head; then I said, I am cut off. 3:55 I called upon thy name, O LORD, out of the low dungeon. 3:56 Thou hast heard my voice: hide not thine ear at my breathing, at my cry. 3:57 Thou drewest near in the day that I called upon thee: thou saidst, Fear not. 3:58 O LORD, thou hast pleaded the causes of my soul; thou hast redeemed my life. 3:59 O LORD, thou hast seen my wrong: judge thou my cause. 3:60 Thou hast seen all thei