amiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum, Baanah. The number, I say, of the men of the people of Israel was this; 7:8 The children of Parosh, two thousand an hundred seventy and two. 7:9 The children of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy and two. 7:10 The children of Arah, six hundred fifty and two. 7:11 The children of Pahathmoab, of the children of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand and eight hundred and eighteen. 7:12 The children of Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four. 7:13 The children of Zattu, eight hundred forty and five. 7:14 The children of Zaccai, seven hundred and threescore. 7:15 The children of Binnui, six hundred forty and eight. 7:16 The children of Bebai, six hundred twenty and eight. 7:17 The children of Azgad, two thousand three hundred twenty and two. 7:18 The children of Adonikam, six hundred threescore and seven. 7:19 The children of Bigvai, two thousand threescore and seven. 7:20 The children of Adin, six hundred fifty and five. 7:21 The children of Ater of Hezekiah, ninety and eight. 7:22 The children of Hashum, three hundred twenty and eight. 7:23 The children of Bezai, three hundred twenty and four. 7:24 The children of Hariph, an hundred and twelve. 7:25 The children of Gibeon, ninety and five. 7:26 The men of Bethlehem and Netophah, an hundred fourscore and eight. 7:27 The men of Anathoth, an hundred twenty and eight. 7:28 The men of Bethazmaveth, forty and two. 7:29 The men of Kirjathjearim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred forty and three. 7:30 The men of Ramah and Gaba, six hundred twenty and one. 7:31 The men of Michmas, an hundred and twenty and two. 7:32 The men of Bethel and Ai, an hundred twenty and three. 7:33 The men of the other Nebo, fifty and two. 7:34 The children of the other Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four. 7:35 The children of Harim, three hundred and twenty. 7:36 The children of Jericho, three hundred forty and five. 7:37 The children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty and one. 7:38 The children of Senaah, three thousand nine hundred and thirty. 7:39 The priests: the children of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred seventy and three. 7:40 The children of Immer, a thousand fifty and two. 7:41 The children of Pashur, a thousand two hundred forty and seven. 7:42 The children of Harim, a thousand and seventeen. 7:43 The Levites: the children of Jeshua, of Kadmiel, and of the children of Hodevah, seventy and four. 7:44 The singers: the children of Asaph, an hundred forty and eight. 7:45 The porters: the children of Shallum, the children of Ater, the children of Talmon, the children of Akkub, the children of Hatita, the children of Shobai, an hundred thirty and eight. 7:46 The Nethinims: the children of Ziha, the children of Hashupha, the children of Tabbaoth, 7:47 The children of Keros, the children of Sia, the children of Padon, 7:48 The children of Lebana, the children of Hagaba, the children of Shalmai, 7:49 The children of Hanan, the children of Giddel, the children of Gahar, 7:50 The children of Reaiah, the children of Rezin, the children of Nekoda, 7:51 The children of Gazzam, the children of Uzza, the children of Phaseah, 7:52 The children of Besai, the children of Meunim, the children of Nephishesim, 7:53 The children of Bakbuk, the children of Hakupha, the children of Harhur, 7:54 The children of Bazlith, the children of Mehida, the children of Harsha, 7:55 The children of Barkos, the children of Sisera, the children of Tamah, 7:56 The children of Neziah, the children of Hatipha. 7:57 The children of Solomon's servants: the children of Sotai, the children of Sophereth, the children of Perida, 7:58 The children of Jaala, the children of Darkon, the children of Giddel, 7:59 The children of Shephatiah, the children of Hattil, the children of Pochereth of Zebaim, the children of Amon. 7:60 All the Nethinims, and the children of Solomon's servants, were three hundred ninety and two. 7:61 And these were they which went up also from Telmelah, Telharesha, Cherub, Addon, and Immer: but they could not shew their father's house, nor their seed, whether they were of Israel. 7:62 The children of Delaiah, the children of Tobiah, the children of Nekoda, six hundred forty and two. 7:63 And of the priests: the children of Habaiah, the children of Koz, the children of Barzillai, which took one of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite to wife, and was called after their name. 7:64 These sought their register among those that were reckoned by genealogy, but it was not found: therefore were they, as polluted, put from the priesthood. 7:65 And the Tirshatha said unto them, that they should not eat of the most holy things, till there stood up a priest with Urim and Thummim. 7:66 The whole congregation together was forty and two thousand three hundred and threescore, 7:67 Beside their manservants and their maidservants, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred thirty and seven: and they had two hundred forty and five singing men and singing women. 7:68 Their horses, seven hundred thirty and six: their mules, two hundred forty and five: 7:69 Their camels, four hundred thirty and five: six thousand seven hundred and twenty asses. 7:70 And some of the chief of the fathers gave unto the work. The Tirshatha gave to the treasure a thousand drams of gold, fifty basons, five hundred and thirty priests' garments. 7:71 And some of the chief of the fathers gave to the treasure of the work twenty thousand drams of gold, and two thousand and two hundred pound of silver. 7:72 And that which the rest of the people gave was twenty thousand drams of gold, and two thousand pound of silver, and threescore and seven priests' garments. 7:73 So the priests, and the Levites, and the porters, and the singers, and some of the people, and the Nethinims, and all Israel, dwelt in their cities; and when the seventh month came, the children of Israel were in their cities. 8:1 And all the people gathered themselves together as one man into the street that was before the water gate; and they spake unto Ezra the scribe to bring the book of the law of Moses, which the LORD had commanded to Israel. 8:2 And Ezra the priest brought the law before the congregation both of men and women, and all that could hear with understanding, upon the first day of the seventh month. 8:3 And he read therein before the street that was before the water gate from the morning until midday, before the men and the women, and those that could understand; and the ears of all the people were attentive unto the book of the law. 8:4 And Ezra the scribe stood upon a pulpit of wood, which they had made for the purpose; and beside him stood Mattithiah, and Shema, and Anaiah, and Urijah, and Hilkiah, and Maaseiah, on his right hand; and on his left hand, Pedaiah, and Mishael, and Malchiah, and Hashum, and Hashbadana, Zechariah, and Meshullam. 8:5 And Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people; (for he was above all the people;) and when he opened it, all the people stood up: 8:6 And Ezra blessed the LORD, the great God. And all the people answered, Amen, Amen, with lifting up their hands: and they bowed their heads, and worshipped the LORD with their faces to the ground. 8:7 Also Jeshua, and Bani, and Sherebiah, Jamin, Akkub, Shabbethai, Hodijah, Maaseiah, Kelita, Azariah, Jozabad, Hanan, Pelaiah, and the Levites, caused the people to understand the law: and the people stood in their place. 8:8 So they read in the book in the law of God distinctly, and gave the sense, and caused them to understand the reading. 8:9 And Nehemiah, which is the Tirshatha, and Ezra the priest the scribe, and the Levites that taught the people, said unto all the people, This day is holy unto the LORD your God; mourn not, nor weep. For all the people wept, when they heard the words of the law. 8:10 Then he said unto them, Go your way, eat the fat, and drink the sweet, and send portions unto them for whom nothing is prepared: for this day is holy unto our LORD: neither be ye sorry; for the joy of the LORD is your strength. 8:11 So the Levites stilled all the people, saying, Hold your peace, for the day is holy; neither be ye grieved. 8:12 And all the people went their way to eat, and to drink, and to send portions, and to make great mirth, because they had understood the words that were declared unto them. 8:13 And on the second day were gathered together the chief of the fathers of all the people, the priests, and the Levites, unto Ezra the scribe, even to understand the words of the law. 8:14 And they found written in the law which the LORD had commanded by Moses, that the children of Israel should dwell in booths in the feast of the seventh month: 8:15 And that they should publish and proclaim in all their cities, and in Jerusalem, saying, Go forth unto the mount, and fetch olive branches, and pine branches, and myrtle branches, and palm branches, and branches of thick trees, to make booths, as it is written. 8:16 So the people went forth, and brought them, and made themselves booths, every one upon the roof of his house, and in their courts, and in the courts of the house of God, and in the street of the water gate, and in the street of the gate of Ephraim. 8:17 And all the congregation of them that were come again out of the captivity made booths, and sat under the booths: for since the days of Jeshua the son of Nun unto that day had not the children of Israel done so. And there was very great gladness. 8:18 Also day by day, from the first day unto the last day, he read in the book of the law of God. And they kept the feast seven days; and on the eighth day was a solemn assembly, according unto the manner. 9:1 Now in the twenty and fourth day of this month the children of Israel were assembled with fasting, and with sackclothes, and earth upon them. 9:2 And the seed of Israel separated themselves from all strangers, and stood and confessed their sins, and the iniquities of their fathers. 9:3 A