the tent, it shall hang over the sides of the tabernacle on this side and on that side, to cover it. 26:14 And thou shalt make a covering for the tent of rams' skins dyed red, and a covering above of badgers' skins. 26:15 And thou shalt make boards for the tabernacle of shittim wood standing up. 26:16 Ten cubits shall be the length of a board, and a cubit and a half shall be the breadth of one board. 26:17 Two tenons shall there be in one board, set in order one against another: thus shalt thou make for all the boards of the tabernacle. 26:18 And thou shalt make the boards for the tabernacle, twenty boards on the south side southward. 26:19 And thou shalt make forty sockets of silver under the twenty boards; two sockets under one board for his two tenons, and two sockets under another board for his two tenons. 26:20 And for the second side of the tabernacle on the north side there shall be twenty boards: 26:21 And their forty sockets of silver; two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board. 26:22 And for the sides of the tabernacle westward thou shalt make six boards. 26:23 And two boards shalt thou make for the corners of the tabernacle in the two sides. 26:24 And they shall be coupled together beneath, and they shall be coupled together above the head of it unto one ring: thus shall it be for them both; they shall be for the two corners. 26:25 And they shall be eight boards, and their sockets of silver, sixteen sockets; two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board. 26:26 And thou shalt make bars of shittim wood; five for the boards of the one side of the tabernacle, 26:27 And five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the side of the tabernacle, for the two sides westward. 26:28 And the middle bar in the midst of the boards shall reach from end to end. 26:29 And thou shalt overlay the boards with gold, and make their rings of gold for places for the bars: and thou shalt overlay the bars with gold. 26:30 And thou shalt rear up the tabernacle according to the fashion thereof which was shewed thee in the mount. 26:31 And thou shalt make a vail of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen of cunning work: with cherubims shall it be made: 26:32 And thou shalt hang it upon four pillars of shittim wood overlaid with gold: their hooks shall be of gold, upon the four sockets of silver. 26:33 And thou shalt hang up the vail under the taches, that thou mayest bring in thither within the vail the ark of the testimony: and the vail shall divide unto you between the holy place and the most holy. 26:34 And thou shalt put the mercy seat upon the ark of the testimony in the most holy place. 26:35 And thou shalt set the table without the vail, and the candlestick over against the table on the side of the tabernacle toward the south: and thou shalt put the table on the north side. 26:36 And thou shalt make an hanging for the door of the tent, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, wrought with needlework. 26:37 And thou shalt make for the hanging five pillars of shittim wood, and overlay them with gold, and their hooks shall be of gold: and thou shalt cast five sockets of brass for them. 27:1 And thou shalt make an altar of shittim wood, five cubits long, and five cubits broad; the altar shall be foursquare: and the height thereof shall be three cubits. 27:2 And thou shalt make the horns of it upon the four corners thereof: his horns shall be of the same: and thou shalt overlay it with brass. 27:3 And thou shalt make his pans to receive his ashes, and his shovels, and his basons, and his fleshhooks, and his firepans: all the vessels thereof thou shalt make of brass. 27:4 And thou shalt make for it a grate of network of brass; and upon the net shalt thou make four brasen rings in the four corners thereof. 27:5 And thou shalt put it under the compass of the altar beneath, that the net may be even to the midst of the altar. 27:6 And thou shalt make staves for the altar, staves of shittim wood, and overlay them with brass. 27:7 And the staves shall be put into the rings, and the staves shall be upon the two sides of the altar, to bear it. 27:8 Hollow with boards shalt thou make it: as it was shewed thee in the mount, so shall they make it. 27:9 And thou shalt make the court of the tabernacle: for the south side southward there shall be hangings for the court of fine twined linen of an hundred cubits long for one side: 27:10 And the twenty pillars thereof and their twenty sockets shall be of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets shall be of silver. 27:11 And likewise for the north side in length there shall be hangings of an hundred cubits long, and his twenty pillars and their twenty sockets of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets of silver. 27:12 And for the breadth of the court on the west side shall be hangings of fifty cubits: their pillars ten, and their sockets ten. 27:13 And the breadth of the court on the east side eastward shall be fifty cubits. 27:14 The hangings of one side of the gate shall be fifteen cubits: their pillars three, and their sockets three. 27:15 And on the other side shall be hangings fifteen cubits: their pillars three, and their sockets three. 27:16 And for the gate of the court shall be an hanging of twenty cubits, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, wrought with needlework: and their pillars shall be four, and their sockets four. 27:17 All the pillars round about the court shall be filleted with silver; their hooks shall be of silver, and their sockets of brass. 27:18 The length of the court shall be an hundred cubits, and the breadth fifty every where, and the height five cubits of fine twined linen, and their sockets of brass. 27:19 All the vessels of the tabernacle in all the service thereof, and all the pins thereof, and all the pins of the court, shall be of brass. 27:20 And thou shalt command the children of Israel, that they bring thee pure oil olive beaten for the light, to cause the lamp to burn always. 27:21 In the tabernacle of the congregation without the vail, which is before the testimony, Aaron and his sons shall order it from evening to morning before the LORD: it shall be a statute for ever unto their generations on the behalf of the children of Israel. 28:1 And take thou unto thee Aaron thy brother, and his sons with him, from among the children of Israel, that he may minister unto me in the priest's office, even Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar, Aaron's sons. 28:2 And thou shalt make holy garments for Aaron thy brother for glory and for beauty. 28:3 And thou shalt speak unto all that are wise hearted, whom I have filled with the spirit of wisdom, that they may make Aaron's garments to consecrate him, that he may minister unto me in the priest's office. 28:4 And these are the garments which they shall make; a breastplate, and an ephod, and a robe, and a broidered coat, a mitre, and a girdle: and they shall make holy garments for Aaron thy brother, and his sons, that he may minister unto me in the priest's office. 28:5 And they shall take gold, and blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine linen. 28:6 And they shall make the ephod of gold, of blue, and of purple, of scarlet, and fine twined linen, with cunning work. 28:7 It shall have the two shoulderpieces thereof joined at the two edges thereof; and so it shall be joined together. 28:8 And the curious girdle of the ephod, which is upon it, shall be of the same, according to the work thereof; even of gold, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen. 28:9 And thou shalt take two onyx stones, and grave on them the names of the children of Israel: 28:10 Six of their names on one stone, and the other six names of the rest on the other stone, according to their birth. 28:11 With the work of an engraver in stone, like the engravings of a signet, shalt thou engrave the two stones with the names of the children of Israel: thou shalt make them to be set in ouches of gold. 28:12 And thou shalt put the two stones upon the shoulders of the ephod for stones of memorial unto the children of Israel: and Aaron shall bear their names before the LORD upon his two shoulders for a memorial. 28:13 And thou shalt make ouches of gold; 28:14 And two chains of pure gold at the ends; of wreathen work shalt thou make them, and fasten the wreathen chains to the ouches. 28:15 And thou shalt make the breastplate of judgment with cunning work; after the work of the ephod thou shalt make it; of gold, of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, and of fine twined linen, shalt thou make it. 28:16 Foursquare it shall be being doubled; a span shall be the length thereof, and a span shall be the breadth thereof. 28:17 And thou shalt set in it settings of stones, even four rows of stones: the first row shall be a sardius, a topaz, and a carbuncle: this shall be the first row. 28:18 And the second row shall be an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond. 28:19 And the third row a ligure, an agate, and an amethyst. 28:20 And the fourth row a beryl, and an onyx, and a jasper: they shall be set in gold in their inclosings. 28:21 And the stones shall be with the names of the children of Israel, twelve, according to their names, like the engravings of a signet; every one with his name shall they be according to the twelve tribes. 28:22 And thou shalt make upon the breastplate chains at the ends of wreathen work of pure gold. 28:23 And thou shalt make upon the breastplate two rings of gold, and shalt put the two rings on the two ends of the breastplate. 28:24 And thou shalt put the two wreathen chains of gold in the two rings which are on the ends of the breastplate. 28:25 And the other two ends of the two wreathen chains thou shalt fasten in the two ouches, and put them on the shoulderpieces of the ephod before it. 28:26 And thou shalt make two rings of gold, and thou shalt put them upon the two ends 